    Chinese were the first nation in the world who started producing paper by hand. This happened almost 2000 years ago.
    Oldest surviving trace of papyrus comes from 3000 BC Egypt.
    Watermarks on paper were first used in 13th century Italy.
    Paper came to Europe via Arab traders who learned its secrets from the Chinese.
    Machine that extracts and prepares tree fibers for papermaking is called Hollander.
    Recycling one ton of paper saves 17 trees!
    Largest producers of paper by quantity in the world are US and Canada. After them come Finland, Japan and Sweden. 

    Largest producer of paper by volume is not America, but China. As of 2011 they have 24.9% market share of paper production, with US having 18.8%.
    In 1999 average American came in contact with approximately 354 kg of paper.
    City of Phoenix, USA, manages to collect around 100 thousand tons of recycled material per year, and 75% of it is paper.
    Toilet paper started being produced in late 9th century China.
    Use of paper is growing with each passing year.
    The oldest European document written on paper comes from 1109. It was a deed of Sicillian king King Roger II written in Greek and Arabic. 

    42% of industrial wood industry is dedicated to paper production.
    37% of US paper pulp comes from recycled paper.
    Paper industry is the 4th largest contributor of the greenhouse gas emissions in the US.
    In the last 200 years, 50% of Earth’s forests were cleared or burned.
    Every day Americans buy around 62 million newspapers and throw out around 44 million of them.
    During its lifetime, one American citizen uses 465 trees for its paper needs.
    Around 73% of every landfill is paper and cardboard boxes.
    First American paper mill was established in 1690.
    First book that was printed from an industrially made paper was produced in 1804. 

	1. Paper was invented from hemp by the Chinese, around 100 B.C. Later, they started creating paper using other forms of plant fibers such as bamboo and tree bark. Prior to the invention of paper, papyrus served as a writing surface.
	2. The Chinese also are credited with being the first people to use paper currency and toilet paper.
	3. The production of the paper focuses on softwood trees that account for approximately eighty-five percent of the form. The wood pulp in softwood trees contains cellulose fibers and is most preferred since they can produce adequate strength for paper.

4. The favorable softwood trees for papermaking include pine, fir, and spruce. Trees come in varied sizes, making it difficult to establish how a single tree can produce many sheets of paper. However, on average, one pine tree can make around 80,000 sheets of paper.

5. It can take five liters of water to make one sheet of paper. Although water and writing may sound like a bizarre combination, ninety-nine percent removal of water will make the remaining one percent paper the way we see it.

6. You can put paper into seven different categories. These are printing paper, writing paper, drawing paper, wrapping paper, handmade paper, blotting paper, and specialty paper.

7. Paper-making was a huge secret the Chinese kept to themselves until the sixth century when the idea was brought to Japan by a Buddhist monk called Dam Jing. The Japanese quickly learned this tactic and began making the valuable item using pulp obtained from mulberry bark.
8. It is believed that the knowledge of paper-making was later passed to the Arab world in 751 CE after the famous Battle of Talas. During this time, two Chinese who were paper-makers were captured as prisoners.

9. The paper-making technique employed by people of the Middle East tangled macerating and garnering rags in water to create homogeneous pulp, which would be sifted to obtain macerated fiber sheets. The sheets were then pressed, dried, and covered with a film of rice starch.




1. Riddle: What has 18 legs and catches flies?
Answer: A baseball team.

2. Riddle: The poor have me; the rich need me. Eat me and you will die. What am I?
Answer: Nothing.

3. Riddle: What has 13 hearts but no other organs?
Answer: A deck of cards.

4. Riddle: Four jolly men sat down to play and played all night, ’til the break of day. They played for cash and not for fun, with a separate score for everyone. When it came time to square accounts, they’d all had made quite fair amounts. Not one had lost and all had gained, so tell me how. Can you explain?
Answer: The men were in a band.

5. Riddle: I have branches but no fruit, trunk, or leaves. What am I?
Answer: A bank.

6. Riddle: What word contains all of the twenty-six letters?
Answer: Alphabet.

7. Riddle: What do you get when you mix lemons with gun powder?
Answer: Lemonades.

8. Riddle: What is the longest word in the English language?
Answer: Smiles – Because there’s a ‘mile’ between the two S’s

9. Riddle: What five-letter word can be read the same upside down or right side up?
Answer: Swims.

10. Riddle: Which word in the dictionary is spelled incorrectly?
Answer: Incorrectly.

Want more? Our ultimate list of riddles will up your guessing game!

11. Riddle: You are walking down a road and come to a fork. One path leads to certain death; the other leads to eternal happiness. You don’t know which is which. In the middle of the fork, you come across two brothers who know which road is which. One brother always tells the truth and the other always lies. You can only ask them one question. How would you determine which road to take?
Answer: Ask each brother, “if you were your brother, which road would you say leads to eternal happiness?” Both brothers should give you the same answer. You would take the opposite path.

12. Riddle: What has a head and a tail, but no body or legs?
Answer: A coin.

13. Riddle: What color can you eat?
Answer: Orange.

14. Riddle: What do you call a three-humped camel?
Answer: Pregnant.

15. Riddle: Which word is the odd one out—stun, ton, evil, letter, mood, bad, snap, straw?
Answer: Letter. If you read each word backward, letter is the only one that does not make another valid word.

16. Riddle: I am a solitary word, 5 letters long. Behead me once, I am the same. Behead me again, I am still the same.
Answer: Alone

17. Riddle: What is one thing that all wise men, regardless of their politics or religion, have to agree is between heaven and earth?
Answer: The word “and.”

18. Riddle: Which is correct to say: “the yolk of the egg are white” or “the yolk of the egg is white?”
Answer: Neither! Yolks are yellow.

19. Riddle: What has many words but never speaks?
Answer: A book.

20. Riddle: You’ll often find us on a line. When we’re together, it’s a crime. What are we?
Answer: Crows. A group of crows is called a “murder.”

So many word riddles! We’ve also got math riddles for the number lovers.

21. Riddle: If I am holding a bee, what do I have in my eye?
Answer: Beauty. Beauty is in the eye of the bee-holder.

22. Riddle: They come at night without being called and are lost in the day without being stolen. What are they?
Answer: Stars.

23. Riddle: What word, describing a job title, has three consecutive double letters?
Answer: Bookkeeper

24. Riddle: I touch the earth and I touch the sky, but if I touch you, you’ll likely die. What am I?
Answer: Lightning.

25. Riddle: If there are five apples and you take away three, how many apples do you have?
Answer: Three.

26. Riddle: What four-letter word can be written forward, backward or upside down, and can still be read from left to right?
Answer: NOON.

27. Riddle: I am lighter than air, but a hundred people cannot lift me—I’m too fragile. What am I?
Answer: A bubble.

28. Riddle: You throw away the outside and cook the inside. Then you eat the outside and throw away the inside. What did you eat?
Answer: An ear of corn.

29. Riddle: Pronounced as one letter and written with three, two letters there are and two only in me. I’m double. I’m single. I’m black, blue, and gray. I’m read from both ends, but the same either way. What am I?
Answer: Eye.

30. Riddle: If you throw me out the window, you’ll leave a grieving wife, but drop me in the middle of a door, and you might just save a life. What am I?
Answer: The letter N.

If you’re looking for more suggestions, try our ultimate list of 150 riddles.


https://www.letsroam.com/explorer/riddles/